---
layout: post
title:  "Touch"
tags: 
    - Divine Styler
    - Spiral Walls Containing Autumns of Light
permalink: /touch/
published: true
---

>We live within

In the intro to this epically strange song, a few heavy heartbeats give way to a blasé, loping swing beat, amid some jagged electronics and low human groans. A simple, cheap-sounding synth starts off the main motif in a directionless, off-kilter line. The stethoscope rhythms are echoed by a bass guitar part that is stubbornly one-note. Every so often the atmosphere is punctuated by a single off-key chord, strummed nonchalantly on an acoustic guitar. Some other sounds evoke medical monitoring or life support. It is technically, a song, but all of the instruments seem indifferent to one other. 

It gives me the feeling of being small and travelling through the inside of a living body. The darkness, the smells, the wetness, the different systems working independently of each other that we all take for granted (The album title, _Spiral Walls Containing Autumns of Light_ is interesting to consider in this context). I definitely remember seeing something like this, as a teenager, in a movie or an old tv show. A miniature crew, flying something like a spaceship through the dark, hostile passageways of the human anatomy. The special effects were hokey, but with a campy appeal (not unlike this first half of the song). 

The intracorporeal vibe is validated when, almost a minute in, Divine Styler starts with this lyric:

>Touch me, in my mind

It's intimate, but maybe too much so. The delivery is strange enough to set off some instinctual defense mechanism. Where am I? Who is this strange person? Why is he asking me to touch him? 

---
__Everything below is DRAFT__

if you are going to embrace this song and this lyric and this singer then you are going to have to accept this weird intimacy, leaving you quite vulnerable. 



The track starts off with a heart beat. The heart skips a few beat. A sluggish broken swing beat starts. Some jagged synths. I feel like I'm maybe inside the body. He mumbles. It is a weird, disorienting sound. It goes on for 2:45m. But then the singer snaps and starts yelling. 

 launchpad from which Divine Styler can 

Islamic themes of prayer

Sounds mad, in both senses of the word.

Great bass sound. 

He yells "Protrate Constantly" over and over, but it doesn't feel like an imperative. It is a little frightening for being so intense, but not threatening. It sounds more like an epiphany. personal creed. 

"Emphatically ovulating"

This song was on a major rap label Giant.



